**Solution Statement**

For farmers who need agricultural support, Sprout is a forum that enables farmers to ask and answer questions. Unlike generic forums/social media sites our product analyzes discussions to generate ag. insights and support an expert knowledge base.
The team intends to address the problem by designing and creating a system that tracks and provides information on crop animal health issues. It will be a web-based application that offers the farmers a platform to exchange crop and animal health information. The forum can be used by farmers to discuss changes in crop and animal behavior, health issues and solutions to these issues. The software will have a platform on which farmers can post questions, answer and contribute to existing questions, and discuss other issues that may affect the crops as well as the animals. The system will have a knowledge base in which different information regarding agricultural issues can be populated. The information in the knowledge base can be analyzed to detect infection outbreaks in specific areas and advise the farmers to take the necessary actions. This information can also help the agricultural sector to provide the needed vaccines or treatment in the hot-spots. 


**Long Time Goal
**
The project aims to enable farmers to access timely information to improve their farming practices and holistically serve the people in the agricultural sector.

**Justification Of The Solution**

To answer the question “Why are we doing this project?”, Sprout aims to improve the livelihood of local farmers by providing them with a platform to share "crowd-sourced" agricultural information.

**Success Criteria**
The following criteria will be used to gauge the success of the project:
The number of users on the platform - a rough estimate of 1000 farmers would point to widespread usage.
The number of conversations generated on the platform —higher figures indicate more activity from the farmers on the platform.
The ability to extrapolate the major issues faced by farmers, such as an outbreak of disease based on the data generated by farmers.

**OPPORTUNITIES**

**Users**

Sprout is a solution targeting crop farmers, livestock keepers, and agricultural experts who can put their expertise into practice by giving the farmers professional advice and solutions to their problems. 

**End Goal**

By developing the product, Sprout will enable farmers to get solutions to their everyday problems, not only from the structured knowledge base but also through asking questions in the forum. In addition, they will be able to track their engagement, receive reports generated by the application, and track the hotspots for major diseases in their region, resulting in them actively seeking the proper preventive measures for their crops and animals.  Also, the experts will be able to offer their services to the farmers and animal keepers. All in all, Sprout will holistically serve the people in the agriculture sector.
